# MOOSpace

This repo contains a sequence of in-game code "dumps" of the objects that comprise the MOOSpace system I created for the [BayMOO](http://baymoo.org:4242) online community when I was a teenager, which was _n_ years ago. I developed the entirety of this system twice. The first time, a server crash shortly after I finished it wiped out 90% of the code I had written. The second time, I made sure the code was backed up lest I lose all my work again. Nevertheless, shortly after completing _that_ project, the server itself shut down permanently... or so it seemed.

As of this writing, BayMOO is back up and running and, though much quieter than in its heyday, retains all the creations of all those creative people of all those years ago, when you could actually inhabit a virtual environment and have complex relationships with virtual people, environment and people and everything else all made out of object-oriented code. You can log in right now and inspect this code for yourself in its natural habitat, execute it, and explore the interstellar imaginarium it was meant to support.

The code in these files is presented here for posterity and to preserve the oldest extant code I have personally written. The [MOO programming language](http://www2.iath.virginia.edu/courses/moo/ProgrammersManual.texinfo_4.html) has always been obscure, but it once provided precocious young coders a unique educational platform, a community of mentors, and an unlimited, text-based, programmable world as labile as their capacity to transform it with the agility of their thought and the capaciousness of their creativity. It was a place to be not only a _coder_ but also a _writer_.

MOOSpace is both a series of _rooms_ in BayMOO—a region of the "multi-user dungeon" mostly inspired by _Star Trek_, _Star Wars_, and _The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy_—and a series of generic _objects_ that provide players with interfaces for creating their own starships, space stations, planets, and more. I eventually extended the system to allow for cosmic phenomena, multiple universes, wormholes, and high-speed warp travel in ships and shuttles of varying configurations. I had hoped to incorporate a combat system, as well, and some sort of specialized player class, but unfortunately the future arrived sooner than any of us expected, and the young hotshots of the coding world are today, for better or worse, building Minecraft mods in Java, instead. Pity.
